# RuntimeFS
View the [working demo](https://runtimefs.netlify.app)!

RuntimeFS is an IndexedDB and ServiceWorker file-system, served in your browser with offline functionality. Imagine a localhost, in your browser, with no traces of network activity of files hosted and no server-based storage of files. It offers performant zero-knowledge, end-to-end encryption, ensuring only you can access your data and can easily run online GitHub projects. It's perfect for sensitive files or full-on HTML projects or games **and lets you export all local game or project to a file**. It's easy to directly integrate to an existing website too (under MIT License).

After initial page load, RuntimeFS no longer needs internet connection to function. You can also host this project with a hosting site (see below for `.php` headers). In order to update, you may need to hard reload on the main page. (Caching may also be inconsistent at times as browsers are really picky sadly.)
**This tool is Chromium-focused for now, as it uses the File System API, but has a fallback for other browsers. Using the tool in Incognito might fail due to memory limitations (with a `QuotaExceededError`).**

If you are hosting this, it is suggested that you minify the JavaScript files first with a tool like https://jscompress.com/.

## What does this tool do better than simply hosting files or downloading them?
This tool is meant to be a of a best of most worlds. If you were to try to open some projects from a file, then they would fail due to file://s lacking certain headers. And if you were to try to host your whole project online, it might be problematic (especially if MitM or tracking extensions are used).

## How do I use this tool?
The Upload Folder button will automatically detect `manifest.enc` to determine the type of encryption used (if any), and requires a folder name to add. Then, you can access pages from that folder by inputting the folder name and clicking on the Open button in the Opening and Decrypting section. If you updated something within a folder and want to reopen the tab you can press the Sync/Sync and Open buttons; you can export locally stored data with an optional password too.

## How do I encrypt files properly? The UI is confusing.
While the files stored in IndexedDB are **not** encrypted in your device, you can encrypt folders while in transit with key generation, which uses AES and RSA to store the key locally.

**ADVANCED:** To export an entire folder (particularly very large folders) and encrypt it you can use the Password Encrypt (exports locally) option.

## How does this tool work????
Well, this tool uses IndexedDB to store large amounts of files, and in a fast database system. It also uses ServiceWorker to intercept requests on the same domain (so `/n/myFolder/index.html` isn't an actual URL, but merely a simulated link generated by the ServiceWorker). It also intercepts requests from the JavaScript and uses some small regexes in order to handle edge cases, allowing the ServiceWorker to pick up on those links too! You can also modify HTTP headers in some more complex situations.

## Advanced techniques (and what the other files are for)
Hear me out: what if instead of having the entire website out in the open, you have to do some special actions to access it? Well, this can be made a reality.

You can use something like cookies to pretend requests are 404 without suspicion with .htaccess.
```yaml (not really yaml)
DirectoryIndex index.php
Options -Indexes
RewriteCond %{HTTP_COOKIE} !cookie=1 [NC]
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !=/
RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !=/404.html
RewriteRule .* - [R=404,L]
ErrorDocument 403 /404.html
ErrorDocument 404 /404.html
RewriteEngine On
RewriteCond %{HTTPS} off
RewriteRule .* https://%{HTTP_HOST}%{REQUEST_URI} [R=301,L]
```
(As you may notice, the homepage of the domain/subdomain, and the 404 link can both still be accessed **even without the cookie**!)

In this case, you can only access the website if the `cookie` cookie equals `1`. Then, you can use the `index.php` file, or modify it as needed.
(Note: it might be fairly obvious what the JS code does initially to anyone that sees the source code. Additionally, browsers have different limits for how long cookies stay before expiring, so deleting the JS after your initial access could be a bad idea, depending on your situation.) For the `index.php` example you must type `mysecret` into the website when it is focused, with no incorrect key strokes or special keys.

You can try to make the code less obvious if you want but ultimately **no system is truly impenetrable** so it depends on how far you are willing to go!

You may also want to replace export with a `data:` URI or add a prompt to do that; this is a precautionary measure because a browser's download history stores where you downloaded a file from, which may be bypassed with a data URI. However, exporting with a data URI reveals the contents within the file to the download history instead, which might not be desirable, and is much, much slower.

### TODO
- More optimization?
- Basic editing of the local file system
- Console log and JS execution panel (for some cases where Inspect is disabled)
- `.zip` export option/ability to export data larger than 2GB